this links to a tweet which has a video
by the future of Life Institute all
about the possibility of nuclear
Holocaust
I've never wanted to swear more on
airchat but seriously screw these people
like they've all got a grift like this
this is Max tegmark's Institute by the
way the future of Life Institute they'll
have wonderful sounding names the future
of Life Institute all they do is produce
material about the ways in which they
think everything can go wrong without
ever considering the solutions and they
get it completely wrong in this
particular case Max tegmark the
physicist and all of his luminary
Intelligentsia Minions that work for him
have come up with a simulation of what
if the US released all their nuclear
weapons and what if Russia released all
their nuclear weapons what would happen
to the world and what does tegmark
himself say about this simulation when
all of them go off everywhere around the
world what does he say
he calls it the quote most
scientifically complete unquote
simulation to data this the most
scientifically complete
what an absolute joke
but it ignores everything it ignores
everything about reality number one it
ignores the vastly superior military
technology of the US which would in all
likelihood if if this sort of thing
kicked off if Russia was to launch one
ICBM the United States would pick it up
almost immediately shoot out of the sky
and then it would proceed to shoot all
the others out of the sky and it would
shoot uh it would obliterate it would
annihilate all of the nuclear silos in
Russia very very quickly I doubt
anything would reach the United States
maybe one if they're lucky would get
through the net
this is not a scientifically complete
picture of what would happen
as I was saying on Twitter Russia has
basically the economic strength of
Australia and then they've got Soviet
era nudes are they dangerous absolutely
they are the interesting thing I learned
about only recently was that because of
recent European uh Research into fusion
power they've actually developed systems
and the US military no doubt has these
where they can track efficient radiation
which is what you need to have a fusion
uh Bomb by the way they can track it in
real time they can spot this stuff
uranium and plutonium traveling around
the world very easily because you can't
Shield the radiation coming out of this
stuff very easily right in a nuclear
weapon it's not they can just people are
worried about like getting on a boat and
getting into New York Harbor and then
blowing up the city that won't happen
so here's the tig Mark tweet that last
one was a link to a response to the tech
map tweet which I thought was hilarious
because it was comparing it to that 1983
film which I found thrilling at the time
it would have been you know seven years
old or something
um or cold war games all about this
exact kind of thing comparing uh what
techmark has done to what's going on in
that 1993 film I thought that's about
right that's a the level of computation
being used in this so-called simulation
is about as good as the level of
computation used to make the CGI for
that 983 film so here's the tig mark one
these people frustrate me because the
entire grift their entire business model
is just to continue to tell the world
especially governments about how we're
on the brink of Extinction we're always
getting closer to Extinction the better
things get the worse they're about to
get it's apparently their entire
argument and they just get so much
Authority power and money by doing this
by scaring the bejesus out of people
it's bad enough that it's politicians
but kids hear this as well you know kids
I remember growing up during the 80s and
feeling the fear because the silly
teachers were telling us you know oh the
nuclear weapons are going off and but
maybe there was a sense in which there's
a possibility of this but you don't need
to hear that as a kid it's the same as
today they don't need to hear about
climate change it's all nonsense that
we're not going to be able to solve
these problems yeah they're problems but
they're not going to wipe out Humanity
but they've all got this grift and
they're all listened to you know like
like the the Monk on the proverbial Hill
people are sitting around them
cross-leading like give us your wisdom
Master give it tell us Max take Mark
what's going to happen he doesn't know
he's making stuff up he's writing
science fiction and putting it out there
a science fact the most complete
scientific analysis of this get a life
Martin Reese who's a sort of colleague
at David Deutsche but completely on the
other side of just about every issue
he's on the other side and comes to
epistemology and how science Works he's
on the other side when it comes to what
people are and what we can understand
he's on the other side compared to
optimism I mean he's the anti-day the
glitch to a large extent because you
know he's a Oxford Cambridge kind of guy
he's a similar kind of a voice a sort of
a similar level of respect in the
community more so I would say but he
himself co-founded the center for the
study of existential risk he also serves
on the board of the future of Life
Institute so you know he's got a grift
out there telling people about
existential risk and of course he wrote
the book on this stuff all the ways in
which people are gonna destroy the world
and he calculate a precise probability I
mean something like 90 chance that we're
going to wipe ourselves out within the
next hundred years prepare to be
disappointed with this mathematical
analysis by the way he doesn't know he
doesn't have a clue he can't predict the
growth of knowledge and he and David
have had uh discussions or debates about
this uh well worth looking up to see
David just wipe the floor with him of
course Rhys doesn't realize that he's
been refuted at every turn but there you
go
then of course my favorite on all of
this Nick Bostrom who has the future of
humanity Institute at Oxford University
another grifter who's going to tell you
a thousand ways in which we're going to
wipe ourselves out you know so
government should listen to him and you
know people should pay him consultancy
fees in order to learn about the
problems of course he just lacks the
imagination to
think of the solutions that we're going
to come up with which we inevitably do
and why because that's what we do we're
problem solvers we're knowledge creators
we we find the solution we figure stuff
out just like take Mark can't imagine
didn't even think didn't even think to
include in his simulation missile
defense systems didn't think that
solution already exists just pretends
then calls it science it frustrates me
because they're scaring people they're
lying to people and somehow this is a
way to make money
and of course we can't you know let's
mention a fourth a fourth person with
with you get a fourth Institute to do
with all of this uh the great Wilma
mccaskill of effective altruism Fame you
know one of Sam bankman Freed's uh
colleagues and uh you know advisors and
so on and so forth you know he's got his
own one as well he's got his own I've
got to look this up what was his one
oh yes the friendly sounding Global
priorities Institute also at the
University of Oxford prepared to hear
that the global priorities Institute uh
you know with all the pessimists are on
the board you know gold AC Grayling look
him up on Twitter if you've never uh
wanted to hear a more pessimistic
philosopher in your life AC Grayling
here's one anyway all the big names are
part of his Global produce institution
what are the global priorities well of
course they're all the way they're all
the standard stuff you know artificial
intelligence is going to wipe out the
planet um climate change is going to
wipe out the planet the the virus is
going to wipe out the planet too many
people overpopulation is going to wipe
out the planet of course capitalism is
going to wipe out the planet so we need
you know regulations and we need Global
government and Global communism to do
this these people have great influence
they can't win elections so they're
going to start institutes at various
universities and use their Authority as
professors and as people who write books
about morality uh to persuade these days
mainly podcasters to have them on and
interview them and then eventually get
onto mainstream media and persuade them
governments of the world to enact their
policies because the average person is
not going to understand what they're
saying because it's so far-fetched
because it is far-fetched it's all a
disaster movie that they're saying
nothing more intelligible than what you
know James Cameron does with Terminator
so I just I thought I'll bookend this
series of tweets with those two things
number one Max tegmark coming up with a
scientifically complete so he calls it
simulation of nuclear Holocaust where
he's completely ignored any defense
systems
so the most unscientific incomplete
simulation would be better so we'll
start with that and we'll end with
um will mccaskill who you know is very
very closely associated with Sam bankman
freed okay so we can't be judged by the
company we we keep perhaps but you know
this was the guy that was uh very deeply
involved in the FTX future fund and they
started effective altruism and yet they
were still listening to this guy you
know he's one of Sam Harris's great
Heroes so from beginning to end as soon
as you start to hear about these
institutes that are about global
existential risk and so on and so forth
and they're going to simulate whether
it's climate change through to
prophesying when the AI is going to take
over through nuclear Holocaust you throw
it all in the same bin it's all absolute
nonsense
is climate change a problem yes it is is
the fear of the use of nuclear weapons
by governments around the world a risk
and a problem yes absolutely
could AI be put to terrible uses yes we
are beset with problems problems are
inevitable but they're also soluble and
the history of humanity is striving to
make the world a better place things can
go wrong we all know that but just
because you and your colleagues cannot
imagine the solution to come doesn't
mean that what follows from that is the
death of humanity should we talk about
the possibility that everything might
get wiped out I suppose so but could we
at least have similar air time for the
possibility that things are going to get
spectacularly better because that's the
history this isn't an inductive argument
this just relies upon understanding what
a person is a person's a problem solver
and we've got you know coming up to
eight billion of them solving their
problems wanting their life to be better
in the lives of their fellow family
members and community members to be
better and everyone to be better people
are nice to each other yeah there are
some sociopaths out there yeah there are
some bad eggs but overall we're striving
to make the world better and that's the
explanation for why things have improved
stop being so pessimistic stop scaring
people
stop being so extreme have some fun